docusaurus/docs/Flutter/stream_chat_flutter_core/channels_bloc.mdx, before:

---
id: channels_bloc
sidebar_position: 7
title: ChannelsBloc
---

`ChannelsBloc` is a widget dedicated to the management of a channel list with pagination.
`ChannelsBloc` is used together with `ChannelListCore` to manage a list of
Channels with pagination, re-ordering, querying and other operations
associated with Channels.

`ChannelsBloc` can be accessed at anytime by using the static `.of` method
using Flutter's `BuildContext`.

```dart
var _channelsBloc = ChannelsBloc.of(context);
```

The `ChannelsBloc` widget encapsulates common functionality related to channel lists such as fetching
the existing channels and querying new channels and also supplies them down the widget tree.

The widget is required for the respective core widget (`ChannelListCore`) to fetch channels and hence
must be above the core widget in the tree.

Here is a basic implementation of `ChannelsBloc`:

```dart
ChannelsBloc(
    child: // Further Widget Tree
),
```

The `ChannelsBloc` widget allows three customisations:

#### Lock Channels Order

ChannelsBloc may change the order of channels when new messages arrive. To lock this order, we can
set the `lockChannelsOrder` property to true.

```dart
ChannelsBloc(
    lockChannelsOrder: true,
    child: // Further Widget Tree
),
```

#### Set custom channel order

We can decide the order of the channels in the list by supplying a comparator to the `channelsComparator`
parameter:

```dart
ChannelsBloc(
    channelsComparator: (a, b) {
        return a.createdAt!.millisecondsSinceEpoch >
                          b.createdAt!.millisecondsSinceEpoch
                      ? 1
                      : -1;
    },
    child: // Further Widget Tree
),
```

#### Decide if channel should be added on new message event

When a new message arrives, a `message.new` event is received. We can decide if we want to add the channel
to the list using the `shouldAddChannel` parameter which is a callback supplying the event data:

```dart
ChannelsBloc(
    shouldAddChannel: (event) {
        return event.message!.extraData['priority'] == '1';
    },
    child: // Further Widget Tree
),
```

Commit message:

feat: added background to blocs

docusaurus/docs/Flutter/stream_chat_flutter_core/channels_bloc.mdx, after:

---
id: channels_bloc
sidebar_position: 7
title: ChannelsBloc
---

A Widget Dedicated To The Management Of A Channel List With Pagination.

### Background

Most widgets in the Core SDK are focused on fetching a particular type of object from Stream Chat - channels,
messages, users, etc. The BLoC widgets bundle up the base functions used to fetch data as well as the current
data fetched by the respective functions. Furthermore, the Core widgets use this BLoC to fetch new or
existing data and build UI based on it.

All Core and UI widgets which focus on fetching a list of objects need to have their respective functions
above them in the widget tree. The ChannelListCore and ChannelListView require the ChannelsBloc
above them in the widget hierarchy without which they will fail.

### Understanding The Widget

`ChannelsBloc` is used together with `ChannelListCore` to manage a list of
Channels with pagination, re-ordering, querying and other operations
associated with Channels.

`ChannelsBloc` can be accessed at anytime by using the static `.of` method
using Flutter's `BuildContext`.

```dart
var _channelsBloc = ChannelsBloc.of(context);
```

The `ChannelsBloc` widget encapsulates common functionality related to channel lists such as fetching
the existing channels and querying new channels and also supplies them down the widget tree.

The widget is required for the respective core widget (`ChannelListCore`) to fetch channels and hence
must be above the core widget in the tree.

Here is a basic implementation of `ChannelsBloc`:

```dart
ChannelsBloc(
    child: // Further Widget Tree
),
```

The `ChannelsBloc` widget allows three customisations:

#### Lock Channels Order

ChannelsBloc may change the order of channels when new messages arrive. To lock this order, we can
set the `lockChannelsOrder` property to true.

```dart
ChannelsBloc(
    lockChannelsOrder: true,
    child: // Further Widget Tree
),
```

#### Set custom channel order

We can decide the order of the channels in the list by supplying a comparator to the `channelsComparator`
parameter:

```dart
ChannelsBloc(
    channelsComparator: (a, b) {
        return a.createdAt!.millisecondsSinceEpoch >
                          b.createdAt!.millisecondsSinceEpoch
                      ? 1
                      : -1;
    },
    child: // Further Widget Tree
),
```

#### Decide if channel should be added on new message event

When a new message arrives, a `message.new` event is received. We can decide if we want to add the channel
to the list using the `shouldAddChannel` parameter which is a callback supplying the event data:

```dart
ChannelsBloc(
    shouldAddChannel: (event) {
        return event.message!.extraData['priority'] == '1';
    },
    child: // Further Widget Tree
),
```
